# PyCPU
Python Script to run an Assembly like language

==================================

### PyCPU

Note:
The cpu is a emulator of sorts, it is not meant to be fast in any sence of the word. 
It is however a good intro for programming in assembly (when fleshed out).

To Use:
- Use a Text Editor to write down Assembly Instructions
- Run compile.py - Compiles instructions into numerical file NOT Binary file (less code to run)
- Run cpu.py - Runs the Command from compiled output file. Script will look for file generated by compile.py (output)

Features:
- Runs Assembly like language 
- cpu.py is the actual CPU
- compile.py is the Compiler
- infile <-- Input to compiler --> Output from compiler --> outfile --> CPU.py to run

Current Progress: (for both "AX" & "BX" Registers)
- Math - ADD, SUB, MUL, DIV, ADI (Add Immediate, instead of Register)
- INC & DEC
- CMP >,< & == (Sets Flags)
- Branching - JMP (Relative), JE (Equal), JL (Less-Than), JG (Greater Than)
- LDI (Load Immediate Value)
- LD Load from Memory (use LDR to use Register as Referance eg, ldr ax,bx)
- ST Store to Memory (use STR to use Register as Referance eg, str ax,bx)
- Stack - PUSH to Stack. POP from Stack
- SP Stack Pointer (Stack Grows in Reverse)
- BP Base Pointer  (Stack Manipulation)

The "infile" includes more instructions on how to use the cpu.py. Feel free to edit and or remove this to replace it with your own.

Planned:
- 2 more Registers (Tenative as this would balloon the code to run...)
- Labels! (Jumps using words instead)

Future:
- Optimize
- Screen Output
- Networking

============================

Future use case (Goal!):
- Research into Minimalistic VMs with Networking 
- Custom Protocol Examination
- Simulated Multiple CPU Cooperation

Disclaimer:
- License Free
- Not fit for any use whatsoever, do not use in production. Not Responsible for the results of use at any time.
- Any Suggestions or feedback appreciated, don't expect a reply in any reasonable amount of time.
